Anne: You know, I work with people
who are DeafBlind too.
And I do have a client who
the hospital basically called DCF
because they were like,
“how can a DeafBlind person
be a parent?”
Brian: It can definitely be tricky. A lot
of people don't understand how someone
who is blind or visually impaired or
DeafBlind can watch a child.
Anne: What am I going to do
when they hand this thing to me?
How am I going to
take care of this baby?
And you know,
and, how am I going
to figure out changing the diapers
and if the diaper is clean
and how am I going to figure out
measuring the bottles,
and all that stuff, you know.
[music plays]
Brian: Really it’s no different than someone
who’s typically sighted and hearing.
We close off our living room
and make sure that any cords
and wires are tucked away.
But, you know, those are things
that any good parent would do,
regardless of disability
to make sure that your child's safe.
Anne: I was always nervous to take
them outside in the backyard,
because it’s not fenced in, and I was
nervous where the kids are.
And I can remember being like,
“where’s Jenny?” and she’s standing right here.
Like, literally right here next to me
and, you know, things like that,
taking them outside was nerve-wracking.
But, you know,
there's all kinds of adaptations
and there's all kinds of vibrating alerts
to tell you when the baby's crying
or when a smoke detector
is going off, or the doorbell.
And there's all kinds of services out there
and adaptive equipment
out there to help you.
You know, I tried different things
like baby gates to keep them...
...at least I knew what room they were in.
And also, I guess I’m just with my babies a lot.
Brian: I used alternative techniques,
you know, when my daughter is running around
I’m listening to her footsteps
to make sure that she is where she should be.
Right now, she is pretty loud in her movement,
but, you know, if we had to, we could
put bells on her feet and track her that way.
Anne: I slept with my hearing aids on
when they were real little
just because I was nervous.
And then I slept with the monitor
right next to my head.
I used way more baby wipes
than anyone should ever use, probably,
to make sure that my daughter was clean.
Brian: You use your sense of touch.
You know, I change diapers and things
and make sure that they're clean and
everything’s good to go.
It's really just all about
using different techniques.
And at the end of the day,
it really doesn't matter
whether or not you have a disability.
Anne: Have I banged into toddlers
and my kids? Yes.
You know, they bounce.
Have I made mistakes? Yes.
But it’s kind of...
...one day at a time.
I don't want to say it wasn't a big deal
because it is a big deal.
But I just basically
figure it out as I go along.
[music plays]
Brian: My daughter loves to,
even if she’s reading in print,
use her finger
to kind of navigate the words.
She also loves
holding the guide dog leash.
Her and Intrigue are really close.
And I think, you know, I could see her
one day being an orientation and mobility
specialist for people who are blind,
visually impaired, and DeafBlind.
I think they'll have a greater
awareness and compassion
for people with disabilities
and people without disabilities.
They'll be much more well-rounded
as individuals and be a lot more
compassionate towards others.
Anne: My kids became helpful very young.
You know, I think even when
they were in kindergarten
they would grab my hand and say,
“okay, mommy, there's a step” you know, or,
“okay, mommy, the chair is right there”
or, “watch out for the wet floor sign.”
Or, you know, things like that.
They're going to be amazing adults
because they've grown up
helping me and they've grown up
being understanding of people
with different disabilities.
Francis: As of right now, the voice you hear
is my daughter, Grace.
She always interprets for me
when we go to restaurants, movie theaters,
she's always with me.
She'll sit next to me and interpret for me
just like my daughter Naomi.
She'll always interpret for me,
whether it's voice or just through sign language.
Growing up, I struggled
when they were kids.
I tried to teach them to do this,
but they didn't really know.
And they didn't get used to
until about eight or nine.
And then they started to get used
to guiding me and helping and knowing
to interpret and kind of
just becoming one unit.
Grace: I feel like
my sister and I and a lot of kids
who have deaf parents or who have deaf
and blind parents or parents
who have some form of disability,
I think you grow up with
just this empathy for people.
You feel for them because
you see your parents struggling
in a world that you may not struggle in
and you want it to be equal and fair.
So you now encounter strangers
and you just have this empathy of like,
I'm sure life is very hard for you
because of blank.
I want to do what I can
to help you or to help
have clear communication, or
if you need something, I want to be there.
So I think that's been one big thing.
Believe it or not
Brian: DeafBlind and blind and deaf
parents aren’t a new concept.
You know, I have mentors in my life
who are in their sixties
with grandkids and raising children
and raising grandkids all on their own.
And so,
yeah, it's really interesting
how the public perception
hasn't changed too much.
[music plays]
Grace: That's a question you always get,
“How did your parents raise you?”
Like, “how did you learn how to speak
If your parents are deaf?”
People don't realize
that they can do stuff.
We don't want people
to view them that way.
And the change that we want to see and how
we want to go out and impact people
so that way our parents moving forward
and people like them
don't have to encounter
something like that.
Anne: Maybe we have to prove
ourselves a little bit more
to show, to demonstrate
that we are capable
and that people who are DeafBlind,
for the most part,
can do what hearing and sighted people do.
They just need to do it differently.
And it might be a little bit harder,
it might take a little bit longer.
We might have to use some equipment
or some devices to help us, but
we can do it, you know.
[music ends]